=pod

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Starter - A minimal Dist::Zilla plugin bundle

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ; dist.ini
  name    = My-Cool-Distribution
  author  = Example Jones <jones@example.com>
  license = Perl_5
  copyright_holder = Example Jones
  copyright_year   = 2016
  version = 0.001
  
  [@Starter]           ; all that is needed to start
  revision = 1         ; always defaults to revision 1
  -remove = GatherDir  ; to use [Git::GatherDir] instead, for example
  ExecDir.dir = script ; change the directory used by [ExecDir]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This plugin bundle for L<Dist::Zilla> is designed to do the minimal amount of
work to release a complete distribution reliably. It is similar in purpose to
L<[@Basic]|Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Basic>, but with additional features to
stay up to date and allow greater customization.

It composes the L<PluginRemover|Dist::Zilla::Role::PluginBundle::PluginRemover>
and L<Config::Slicer|Dist::Zilla::Role::PluginBundle::Config::Slicer> roles to
make it easier to customize and extend. Also, it supports bundle revisions
specified as an option, in order to allow for future changes to distribution
packaging and releasing practices.

The C<FAKE_RELEASE> environment variable is supported as in L<Dist::Milla> and
L<Minilla>. It replaces the L<[UploadToCPAN]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::UploadToCPAN>
plugin with L<[FakeRelease]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FakeRelease>, to test the
release process (including any version bumping and commits!) without actually
uploading to CPAN.

  $ FAKE_RELEASE=1 dzil release

=head1 REVISIONS

The C<[@Starter]> plugin bundle currently includes only one revision.

=head2 1

Revision 1 is the default and is equivalent to using the following plugins:

  [GatherDir]
  [PruneCruft]
  [ManifestSkip]
  [MetaYAML]
  [MetaJSON]
  [License]
  [ReadmeAnyFromPod]
  [ExecDir]
  [ShareDir]
  
  [MakeMaker]
  [Manifest]
  
  [TestRelease]
  [RunExtraTests]
  [ConfirmRelease]
  [UploadToCPAN]

This revision differs from L<[@Basic]|Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Basic> as
follows: including L<[MetaJSON]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MetaJSON>; using
L<[ReadmeAnyFromPod]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ReadmeAnyFromPod> instead of
L<[Readme]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Readme>; and using
L<[RunExtraTests]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::RunExtraTests> instead of
L<[ExtraTests]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ExtraTests>.

=head1 CONFIGURING

By using the L<PluginRemover|Dist::Zilla::Role::PluginBundle::PluginRemover> or
L<Config::Slicer|Dist::Zilla::Role::PluginBundle::Config::Slicer> role options,
you can customize the C<[@Starter]> bundle's included plugins as desired. Here
are some examples:

=head2 GatherDir

If you are using git source control, you may wish to replace the default
L<[GatherDir]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::GatherDir> plugin with
L<[Git::GatherDir]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Git::GatherDir>, which is included as
part of the L<[@Git]|Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Git> bundle.

  [Git::GatherDir]
  [@Starter]
  -remove = GatherDir

=head2 Readme

The L<[ReadmeAnyFromPod]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ReadmeAnyFromPod> plugin
generates a plaintext README from the POD text in the distribution's
L<Dist::Zilla/"main_module"> by default, but can be configured to look
elsewhere. The standard README should always be plaintext, but if you want to
generate a non-plaintext README in addition, you can simply use the plugin a
second time. Note that POD-format READMEs should not be included in the
distribution build because they will get indexed and installed due to an oddity
in CPAN installation tools.

  [@Starter]
  ReadmeAnyFromPod.source_filename = bin/foobar
  
  [ReadmeAnyFromPod / Markdown_Readme]
  type = markdown
  filename = README.md
  
  [ReadmeAnyFromPod / Pod_Readme]
  type = pod
  location = root ; do not include pod readmes in the build!

=head2 ExecDir

Some distributions use the C<script> directory instead of C<bin> (the
L<[ExecDir]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ExecDir> default) for executable scripts.

  [@Starter]
  ExecDir.dir = script

=head1 EXTENDING

This bundle includes the basic set of plugins for releasing a distribution, but
there are many common non-intrusive tasks that L<Dist::Zilla> can also help
with simply by using additional plugins.

=head2 Name

To automatically set the distribution name from the current directory, use
L<[NameFromDirectory]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::NameFromDirectory>.

=head2 License and Copyright

To extract the license and copyright information from the main module, and
optionally set the author as well, use
L<[LicenseFromModule]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::LicenseFromModule>.

=head2 Versions

To automatically extract the distribution's version from the main module and
bump it after a release, you can use either
L<[RewriteVersion]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::RewriteVersion> with
L<[BumpVersionAfterRelease]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::BumpVersionAfterRelease>, or
L<[VersionFromModule]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::VersionFromModule> with
L<[ReversionOnRelease]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ReversionOnRelease>. Don't mix
these two approaches!

=head2 Changelog

To automatically add the new release version to the distribution changelog,
use L<[NextRelease]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::NextRelease>. To ensure the release
has changelog entries, use
L<[CheckChangesHasContent]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::CheckChangesHasContent>.

=head2 Git

To better integrate with a git workflow, use the plugins from
L<[@Git]|Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Git>. To automatically add contributors to
metadata from git commits, use L<[Git::Contributors]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Git::Contributors>.

=head2 Resources

To automatically set resource metadata from an associated GitHub repository,
use L<[GithubMeta]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::GithubMeta>. To set resource metadata
manually, use L<[MetaResources]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MetaResources>.

=head2 Prereqs

To automatically set distribution prereqs from a cpanfile, use
L<[Prereqs::FromCPANfile]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Prereqs::FromCPANfile>. To
specify prereqs manually, use L<[Prereqs]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Prereqs>.

=head1 BUGS

Report any issues on the public bugtracker.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dan Book <dbook@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2016 by Dan Book.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Dist::Zilla>, L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Basic>

=cut
